
Core Skill Requirements
Candidate must have relevant experience in in statistical / mathematical modeling, quantitative
research, credit risk management, or related field at a reputed bank, investment or broker
services, asset management firm, Insurance provider or a consulting firm. Wider skill requirements
include:
• Experience in Credit Risk Modeling PD/LGD/EAD – TTC, PIT, Stressed and
unstressed portfolio
• Experience in Model Development, Model Validation, Model Audit (implementation and
execution experience will not be considered directly relevant)
• Knowledge of one or more of global regulatory norms - CECL, IFRS 9, CCAR/DFAST,
Basel II/III, SR-11/7, E-23 around data sufficiency, modeling methods, industry standards etc.
• Well versed with one or more statistical techniques used in credit risk modeling –
Logistic Regression, Time series, OLS, Probit models, Survival techniques, Tobit, Fractional
Logistic, Beta model, State Transition Matrix, Single Factor Merton model etc. Experience in
Machine learning algorithms like Random Forest, SVM, Neural Network etc. and Artificial
Learning use cases such as Natural Language Processing, Robotics etc. will be a plus
• Proficiency in one or more analytical tools such as SAS, R, Python, Matlab, Scala, VBA etc.
Experience in Data Science and cloud based analytics platform will be a plus
• Understanding of credit risk metrics like RWA, Expected loss, Regulatory and Economic
capital, OTTI, Watchlist, Asset quality etc.
• Conceptual understanding of the data and methodology used for credit risk regulatory models
• Leveraging experiential know-how of a wide range of loan types, including C&I, CRE, RRE, ABL,
Leasing, Credit Card, Vehicle, Personal etc.
• Prior experience in domains like commercial banking, retail banking, treasury, investment
management and strong knowledge of risk data analysis and development, strategy design and
delivery deployment.
• Vendor Experience
o Experience in bureau data from credit unions e.g. D&B, Experian, Equifax, Transunion
o Experience in vendor models and ratings like Fitch, Credit pro, Moody etc.
o Knowledge about external / benchmark models on consumer portfolios is a plus (FICO
Score, Standards and Poor's, Fitch or Moody's Ratings)
o Selecting, implementing and/or using commercial credit risk workflow, analytics- e.g.,
Moody's KMV, S&P and/or, reporting technologies- e.g., Oracle, Cognos, et al.

 
Hi Candidate,

I came across your profile and noticed that you have the professional expertise that seems to be a great fit for an exciting new role.

We are currently hiring for CCAR/CECL Model Development Role. Would you be open to have a preliminary discussion about an opportunity that could offer a significant career move? I am sharing the JD below for your ref. 

Responsibilities:

- This CECL modeler role will play a critical role in supporting the Loss Forecasting and Reserve for the credit card portfolio.
- Perform portfolio risk evaluation and credit loss forecasting with a comprehensive understanding of relevant model techniques, business operations, and risk compliance requirements
- Conduct monthly credit loss forecast by using econometric/statistical/non-statistical models with portfolio performance data and other external factors
- Develop and update monthly loss forecasting and CECL reserve reports and presentations for senior managements
- Improve forecasting methodologies and techniques through conducting deep dive analytics and leveraging industry expertise
- Collaborate with various business units to understand and solve business problems


Job description ( Credit risk Modeling)

Experience: 2-10 years

Designation:Lead AM/Manager/Sr Manager/ ProjectManager/AVP

Mandate: Credit risk modeling,Model Development/Validation, Risk Management,SAS/SQL, Python

Location: Pune & Bangalore

Mode- WFH (Till further notice)



Job Description

Roles and Responsibilities

·       Lead and Manage Model monitoring , Validation & other regulatory activities related to IFRS9, ST and ECL models for all Wholesale portfolios across the Globe.

·       Support regulatory and audit submissions as on when required.

·       The individual is also required to work on key projects within the Model Monitoring function and drive changes as  on when required.

You would need to:

·       Interface with senior stakeholders across Wholesale Risk

·       Multitask on simultaneous engagements on controls & governance activities for Wholesale Credit Risk

·       Work closely with senior regional team members in executing specific tasks and projects.

 

Skills/Experience Required:

·       At least 3-4 years of work experience related to Credit Risk within Financial domain with expertise in IFRS9 PD, EAD and LGD model development or monitoring

·       At least Master's degree in Mathematics, Statistics, Economics, Engineering, Computer Science, Management or other quantitative fields of study

·       Proficiency in SAS /SQL/ Python, JavaScript and MS Office tools like Excel & PowerPoint is preferable

·       Business problem solving skills is essential


Years of prior analytics experience (Preferably risk)

·  SQL & Python (Must have)

·  Good understanding of credit risk models – application, behavioral, income imputation , customer stability models

·         End to end understanding of model development methodology : feature creation, development and monitoring and creating strategies

·  Should be able to understand client requirements and come up with the solutions like developing models, devising strategies etc.

·  Banking Exposure (Good to have)

·  Superior verbal and written communications skills with extreme attention-to-detail

·  Would prefer folks with shorter notice period or immediate joiners

Skills:

Must have: 
Knowledge and hands on experience with programming in SAS
Prior Experience /Proficiency in the Statistical modeling concepts and advanced modeling techniques like- Regression/ Decision trees etc.
 

Good to have 
Banking/ Credit Card domain knowledge
Experience in any Regulatory modeling frameworks- CCAR/CECL/IFRS
Candidate Profile:

 

Bachelor’s/Master's degree in economics, mathematics, actuarial sciences, computer science/engineering, operations research or related analytics areas; candidates with BA/BS degrees in the same fields from the top tier academic institutions are also welcome to apply
Candidates with strong model development experience in banking/ credit card domain will be preferred
Strong and in-depth understanding of statistical tools like Regression, Decision Trees
Data analysis experience (1- 5 years)
Superior analytical and problem solving skills
Outstanding written and verbal communication skills
Strong interpersonal communication skills with multiple stakeholder management 
Strong track record of delivery
Able to work in fast pace continuously evolving environment and ready to take up challenges
Able to understand cross cultural differences and can work with clients across the globe


Work hands-on to validate models and bring in thought leadership and domain/quantitative
best practices to present effective challenge to the models
 End-to-end independent validation of credit risk and regulatory models, including
but not limited to – PD, LGD, EAD, Stress Testing, CECL, Credit Scorecards, AML
and counter fraud models etc.
 Conduct first time (baseline), change based and annual validation
 Assess the models conceptually and quantitatively to ensure the model is suitable
for the stated use
 Conduct necessary assessments to challenge the model effectively. Assess adequacy
of model documentation in line with regulatory guidelines
 Validation for the source data quality, forecast data quality as well as change
management
 Development of benchmark models using statistical/Machine Learning technique.
 Assessment of the model monitoring and implementation process. Assessment of
the model calibration techniques
 Prepare model validation report summarizing findings and provide
recommendations and risk rate the models

 Master’s degree or higher in Finance, Mathematics, Economics, Statistics, or
equivalent experience
 Hands on experience in portfolio analytics/predictive modeling/independent
validation of models
 Experience in BFS analytics, with experience in credit risk
analytics/modeling/independent validation of models (Regression, Logistic
Regression, Time series, Clustering, CHAID/Classification trees, Time Series,
Competing Risk, Survival Models, Markov TPM, scorecards, etc.)
 Experience in retail and wholesale credit risk models is a plus
 Understanding of and experience in regulatory risk modeling/validation – SR 11-7,
CECL, IFRS 9, CCAR, Basel IRB.
 Hands on expertise in Excel, SAS &amp; Python/R
 Strong communication/presentation skills – written &amp; verbal
 Self-driven, proactive, “can-do” attitude. Ability to work under ambiguity and with
minimal supervision.



Qualifications

- 3+ years of relevant experience
- Proficiency in SQL, R/Python and Excel
- Proven ability to remain organized in a fast-paced environment and manage multiple projects
- Proven interpersonal, organizational and analytic skills.

 Location: Mumbai, Bangalore, Delhi
 Designation: Hiring is across levels
 Must have skill set:
 Should have prior experience in model development, model validation or model monitoring with a
GSIB or Indian banks
 Good understanding of:
o Credit Risk Model Development steps starting with exploratory data analysis, roll rate,
vintage analysis, good/bad definitions, factor selections, logistic/ linear regressions including
assumptions and limitations, scorecard calibration
o Credit Risk Model Validation starting from data preparation and analysis, validation tests,
back testing, scenario analysis, sensitivity analysis
o Market Risk Model Development or Validation experience covering
 VaR modeling and validation/back-testing (historical full revaluation, Taylor var
approximation (delta gamma method), Monte Carlo) for linear instruments and
derivative products
 Pricing (linear instruments and Derivatives)
 Curve construction and calibration
 MR Capital computation (Standardised approach/IMA/FRTB)
 Economic Capital computation
o Sound knowledge of IRB, IFRS 9, CECL, CCAR, SR-11-7, TRIM, CRD, CRR guidelines
o Time Series analysis and forecasting
o Knowledge around ML techniques such as Random Forest, Decision Trees, and various other
Supervised and Unsupervised Learning algorithms (this is optional)
o Knowledge around regulations by BCBS, US FED, FINMA, PRA, BAFIN, OECD
 Must have techno-functional skills around R, Python, SAS, SQL, VBA (having knowledge of at least
one is mandatory)
 Preparation of model documentation, model monitoring plans, model validation reports
 Should be open for travelling
 Should have good communication skills (English)
 Experience can be between 3-8 years

Experience: 3-5 years of Experience
Job Responsibilities
● Use of Statistical/ Predictive modeling techniques for credit risk
● Solid analytical & problem-solving skills
● Ability to isolate & solve issues using large amounts of data
● Strong understanding of financial loan system(s) &amp; credit products
● Strong conceptual & technical knowledge of risk concepts &amp; quantitative modeling
techniques
● Ability to develop & validate statistical models for assessing risk involved in extending
credit (PD, LGD, EAD)
● Experience of handling unstructured data in large volume, is a strong plus
● Experience of applying machine learning techniques like support vector machines,
gradient boosting method, Neural Networks, KNN etc., is a strong plus.
● Active participant in the quantitative analytical processes for credit risk.
● Ensure regular production of analytical work &amp; reports. Act as an important contact
for credit risk models with Internal stakeholders.
● Works with senior team members to evaluate existing processes in relation to corporate
objectives & industry leading practices. Assess development needs & manage process
to achieve desired future state
● Advanced degree in related field (math, statistics or economics)
● Expert level knowledge of analytical tools like SAS/ R/ Python/ Advanced Excel
PIT LGD = Downturn LGD * (1 - exp(-β * Φ)),

where:

PIT LGD represents the Point in Time Loss Given Default.
Downturn LGD denotes the LGD estimated during an economic downturn.
β is a parameter that captures the sensitivity of LGD to the economic cycle.
Φ represents a macroeconomic variable that reflects the state of the economy.
